MSC4193: Spoilers on Media (#4193)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/4193-spoilers-on-media.md

Reviewer: Implementation requirements:
* [ ] Client sending spoilers
* [ ] Client respecting spoilers

Reviewer 2: I've added an example.

Reviewer 3: Cinny now both respects and supports sending spoilered images. (https://github.com/cinnyapp/cinny/pull/2212)

# MSC4193: Spoilers on Media
This proposal aims to enhance the protocol with more ways to make other users feel comfortable while using the protocol.
Background
Matrix includes a way to add a spoiler to text, which hides the text from visibility without explicit user interaction to show the hidden text. However, there is no official way to do this with images.
## Proposal
Some other chat protocols, like Discord or Telegram, offer a way to hide potentially sensitive or triggering images in a way that requires the user to explicitly interact with it to show the image.

> In events with an image, there will be an optional `m.spoiler` field as a boolean. If true, then clients should show a blurred version of the image. If not present, it will be assumed to be false. There will also be a `m.spoiler.reason` field as a text value that will optionally display text for why the image has a spoiler.

Reviewer 4: It would be great to include a full example event content!

Reviewer 2: I've added an example.

## Potential issues
A user with malicious intent may put something inappropriate in the reason field.
## Alternatives

> One alternative is the [Spoilerinator](https://codeberg.org/cf/spoilerinator) tool.

Reviewer 5: I would just clarify what this alternative does and the limitations of it.

From my brief look at it, it uses Matrix HTML to create an interactive/clickable dropdown to view the image.

The limitation of this compared to the MSC would be that not all clients implement HTML, and HTML on mobile clients isn't very good. Additionally this requires a multi-step process of copying the media URL / MXC URI and running this external tool, and most likely doesn't work in encrypted rooms.

Reviewer 2: I've added a note about the limitations.

## Security considerations
None, hopefully.
## Unstable prefix

> Until this is stable, clients should use `org.matrix.msc4193.spoiler` and `org.matrix.msc4193.spoiler.reason`.

Reviewer 5: `org.matrix` is reserved for matrix.org, so you'll need to use something like your own domain for the unstable prefix.

Reviewer 2: I've updated it to my Codeberg Pages site.

Reviewer 4: Usually it is fine to use `org.matrix` in a MSC if you'd like. Just include the MSC # in it.

# MSC4193: Spoilers on Media
This proposal aims to enhance the protocol with more ways to make other users feel comfortable while using the protocol.
Background

> Matrix includes a way to add a spoiler to text, which hides the text from visibility without explicit user interaction to show the hidden text. However, there is no official way to do this with images.

Reviewer 6: The existing [spoilers](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#spoiler-messages) work on all message types that support `formatted_body` and `org.matrix.custom.html`.

> To send spoilers clients MUST use the `formatted_body` and therefore the `org.matrix.custom.html` format, described above. This makes spoilers valid on any `msgtype` which can support this format appropriately.

Since 1.10 images actually fall into that category, too, through their [media captions](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#media-captions).

So with this proposal it's now possible to have an image itself be behind a spoiler with its caption behind _another_ spoiler. This made me wonder if we'd need some form of UI guidance on how to treat this situation? For instance, should the spoilers be revealed together or separately?

Reviewer 2: I'd say that spoilers should be done separately.

Reviewer 7: I'd imagine most people would want to do each separately, as the caption may tell people what is inside the image to help them know whether they want to view it?

Reviewer 6: That sounds sensible and I think https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4193/commits/c1e9fb4d111bc8737133da2fe55aefa66b339d9a has addressed it accordingly.

# MSC4193: Spoilers on Media
This proposal aims to enhance the protocol with more ways to make other users feel comfortable while using the protocol.
## Background
Matrix includes a way to add a spoiler to text, which hides the text from visibility without explicit user interaction to show the hidden text. However, there is no official way to do this with images.
## Proposal
Some other chat protocols, like Discord or Telegram, offer a way to hide potentially sensitive or triggering images in a way that requires the user to explicitly interact with it to show the image.

In the event that a message has both a spoiler on the body and the image, clients should reveal the spoilers separate from each other.

> In events with an image, video, or audio file, there will be an optional `m.spoiler` field as a boolean. If true, then clients should show a blurred version of the image. If not present, it will be assumed to be false. There will also be a `m.spoiler.reason` field as a text value that will optionally display text for why the image has a spoiler.

Reviewer: We have objects available to us, so I'm inclined to use them.

```suggestion
In events with an image, video, or audio file, there will be an optional `m.spoiler` field. When present, the
client should show a blurred version of the image. If not present or not an object, the image is assumed
unspoilered (like how images are sent today). The object MAY contain an optional `reason` field for a
human-readable reason for the spoiler, like with text spoilers.
```

The example then becomes:

```jsonc
{
  // ...
  "m.spoiler": {
    "reason": "This content is hidden" // optional
  }
}
```

## Example
```
    "body": "amazing-test.png",
    "info": {
      "size": 12607,
      "mimetype": "image/png",
      "w": 1235,
      "h": 473,
      "xyz.amorgan.blurhash": "L3TSErUbl9y?u*VEkWnit,tlayWB"
    },

>     "msgtype": "m.image",

Reviewer 3: I noticed while adding support for this MSC in Cinny that it does not allow for `m.video` messages to be spoiled. Is this an intentional omission?

    "m.mentions": {},
    "m.spoiler": true,
    "m.spoiler.reason": "Shockingly bad graphic design",
    "url": "mxc://chat.blahaj.zone/UMjvQObiMNEyMunrldKQVYcT"
```
## Potential issues
A user with malicious intent may put something inappropriate in the reason field. Additionally, clients that do not support this feature will show all media without a spoiler.

> # Alternatives

Reviewer 8: https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3725 also provides a way to do spoilers on media.

Reviewer 2: I added a note about that.

> A user with malicious intent may put something inappropriate in the reason field. Additionally, clients that do not support this feature will show all media without a spoiler.

Reviewer: explaining mitigations for these issues would be good, even if it's to acknowledge that the issue may be unfixable.

Reviewer 9: I want to comment on this, but this feels like:
`Message send protocol` - Potential issues: A user with malicious intent may send you an inappropriate message.

Which is just silly thing even to say.
